---
layout: post
title:  "Travis-CI"
categories: Python
---
Travis CI has been added to TinyFish!  Once we had the containers set up the next thing we wanted to know is if our work breaks the existing app.  The best way to know if the app is broken is to actually test it and testing is both time consuming and repetitive which makes it ripe for automation.  Travis CI was the tool that was selected, mostly because I had never used Travis and it is very popular.  So I wanted the experience but it is pretty neat.

Travis is used primarily for two purposes, testing and deploying.  We don’t really need deployments yet (as TinyFish still lacks a prod environment) but the testing is a good idea.  To set up Travis all you need to do is sign up for an account, connect it with your GitHub repos'  and then add a .travis.yml file. The .travis.yml file contains the tests you want to run.  I will go into more detail on Travis CI in a moment, the topic we should focus on now is the CI (Continuous Integration) part.

Continuous Integration is the idea of merging in small code changes on a frequent basis.  Testing (automated or otherwise) allows you to more easily pinpoint where a bug was introduced.  Just imagine if you had to commit 10,000 lines of code and then tried to test it all.  It would be a nightmare.  There could be bugs with the existing codebase or you could introduce bugs in that 10,000 lines that break other parts of that same commit. 

If you broke your work down to smaller commits (say 20 lines each just as an example) and committed to a single branch like master, there would be many more commits.  However you can more easily comprehend what 20 lines do, commit, test and repeat versus working with one giant commit or tons of branches. 

The idea is that if the last 20 lines are tested and verified to work, then you can trust those and move forward to the next 20 lines.  Think of it like trying to build a bridge.  One giant commit is like building the bridge somewhere else and moving it in to place.  It’s a huge effort and you have to hope it can be moved without issue and that it fits properly in the end.  CI is like building a bridge where you need it (like the master branch) one plank at a time.  As you lay a plank, you can verify it and then your bridge gets that much closer for you to lay the next plank and make sure it is good too.

So CI is really useful but all the extra commits need to be tested.  Without testing you are breaking the 10,000 lines into smaller commits but that leaves you in the same state of having 10,000 new lines of untested code.  That’s not very useful. 

So Travis CI automates the testing for you.  The .travis.yml file you include is what Travis parses to lay out all the tests you want.  The file for TinyFish is pretty primitive but we can expand on it as we go.  For now the test confirms the TinyFish container builds and comes up properly.  Travis will do this  for every commit we make to GitHub.  That’s really cool and a huge time saver.  Plus Travis has hooks for GitHub so you don’t need to go check Travis to see if it passed or failed, you get a red X or green check mark by every commit.  
