---
layout: post
title:  "The App"
categories: Python
---

Every app begins with a plan and tinyfish is no different.  However since the app is so tiny there wasn't a lot that can be said for the planning phase here that would be fun to read.  So to dive right in to the code I decided to use flask for several reasons.

<ol>
   <li>It is a microframework</li>
   <li>It is Python</li>
   <li>Flask is fun</li>
</ol>  

I really like Python as language so I am going to start there.  Flask is a microframework that I've touched once or twice in the past but I confident it will do the job.  Upon sitting down to write even a simple app and I am already reaching for a framework.  This means I am going to need a virtualenv for Python as well.  On tops of all that I've written a Makefile as well.  I got tired of running commands manually. All these tools and I haven't even mentioned what I am writing yet.  

The tinyfish app is going to be hello world but it will also print out a date.  I need something so that I have the posibility down the road to do things like use a Redis cache.  I am debating on how accurate the date will be.  I only use the date currently but I think I will add in the time as well.  

Just to recap on what I've used to get this far:

<ul>
   <li>Git and GitHub for source control</li>
   <li>Flask as the framework</li>
   <li>Python code for hello world</li>
   <li>The virutalenv for Python</li>
   <li>Makefiles because I've already gotten tired of running common things manually</li>
</ul>

On top of all of that I've had to learn GitHug Pages, Jekyll, a bit of ruby and some light front-end basics to do this blog which is part of the documentation for what is essentially hello world.  I am going to leave the blogging side off the tally I try and keep.  
